# Code reviewing introduction

Source code review is the process of manually checking the source code of a web application for security issues. Many serious security vulnerabilities cannot be detected with any other form of analysis or testing. As the popular saying goes “if you want to know what’s really going on, go straight to the source.” Almost all security experts agree that there is no substitute for actually looking at the code. All the information for identifying security problems is there in the code, somewhere. Unlike testing closed software such as operating systems, when testing web applications (especially if they have been developed in-house) the source code should be made available for testing purposes.

Many unintentional but significant security problems are extremely difficult to discover with other forms of analysis or testing, such as penetration testing. This makes source code analysis the technique of choice for technical testing. With the source code, a tester can accurately determine what is happening (or is supposed to be happening) and remove the guess work of black-box testing.

Examples of issues that are particularly conducive to being found through source code reviews include concurrency problems, flawed business logic, access control problems, and cryptographic weaknesses, as well as backdoors, Trojans, Easter eggs, time bombs, logic bombs, and other forms of malicious code. These issues often manifest themselves as the most harmful vulnerabilities in web applications. Source code analysis can also be extremely efficient to find implementation issues such as places where input validation was not performed or where fail-open control procedures may be present. Operational procedures need to be reviewed as well, since the source code being deployed might not be the same as the one being analyzed herein. [Ken Thompson’s Turing Award speech](https://ia600903.us.archive.org/11/items/pdfy-Qf4sZZSmHKQlHFfw/p761-thompson.pdf) describes one possible manifestation of this issue.

