## Description:

The product's architecture mirrors regions without ensuring that their contents always stay in sync.

Having mirrored regions with different values might result in the exposure of sensitive information and/or other consequences, including loss of access control. Due to architectural and performance constraints, one might need to duplicate a resource. The most common example of doing this in computer architecture is the concept of cache, which keeps a local copy of the data element in memory, because the time to access the memory (which is located far off from the computing core) is significantly longer compared to the time it takes to access a local copy (cache). Thus, keeping a local copy of some distant entity provides significant performance improvement. Unfortunately, this improvement also comes with a downside, since the product needs to ensure that the local copy always mirrors the original copy truthfully. If they get out of sync somehow, the computational result is no longer true. In designing hardware, memory is not the only thing that gets mirrored. There are many other entities that get mirrored, too: registers, memory regions, and, in some cases, even whole units. For example, for a multi-core processor, if every memory access from any of those tens of cores goes through a single memory-management unit (MMU) for security reasons, then the MMU becomes a performance bottleneck. In such cases, it might make sense to create duplicate, local MMUs that will serve only a subset of the cores of processors rather than all of them. These local copies are also called shadow copies or mirrored copies. If the original resource that was being duplicated into these local copies never changed, the question of the local copies getting out of sync would not arise. Unfortunately, in many cases, the values inside the original copy change. For example, a memory range might be inaccessible during boot time, but once the boot process is over and the system is now in a stable state, that memory range may now be opened up for access. So, if a register(s) in the access-control unit stores the start and end addresses of the accessible memory chunks, those values would change after the boot process is over. Now, when the original copy changes, the mirrored copies must also change, and change fast. This situation of shadow-copy-possibly-out-of-sync-with-original-copy might occur as a result of multiple scenarios, including the following: After the values in the original copy change, due to some reason the original copy does not send the update request to its shadow copies. After the values in the original copy change, the original copy dutifully sends the update request to its shadow copies, but due to some reason the shadow copy does not execute this update request. After the values in the original copy change, the original copy sends the update request to its shadow copies, and the shadow copy executes this update request faithfully. However, during the small time period when the original copy has new values and the shadow copy is still holding the old values, an attacker can exploit the old values. Then it becomes a race condition between the attacker and the update process of who can reach the target, shadow copy first, and, if the attacker reaches first, the attacker wins. The attacker might send a spoofed update request to the target shadow copy, pretending that this update request is coming from the original copy. This spoofed request might cause the targeted shadow copy to update its values to some attacker-friendly values, while the original copies remain unchanged by the attacker. Suppose a situation where the original copy has a system of reverting back to its original value if it does not hear back from all the shadow copies that such copies have successfully completed the update request. In such a case, an attack might occur as follows: (1) the original copy might send an update request; (2) the shadow copy updates it; (3) the shadow copy sends back the successful completion message; (4) through a separate issue, the attacker is able to intercept the shadow copy's completion message. In this case, the original copy thinks that the update did not succeed, hence it reverts to its original value. Now there is a situation where the original copy has the old value, and the shadow copy has the new value.

## Mitigation:


PHASE:Architecture and Design:
Whenever there are multiple, physically different copies of the same value that might change and the process to update them is not instantaneous and atomic, it is impossible to assert that the original and shadow copies will always be in sync - there will always be a time period when they are out of sync. To mitigate the consequential risk, the recommendations essentially are: Make this out-of-sync time period as small as possible, and Make the update process as robust as possible.:EFFECTIVENESS:Moderate

