## Description:

Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) is a type of attack that occurs when a malicious Web site,
email, blog, instant message, or program causes a users Web browser to perform an unwanted
action on a trusted site for which the user is currently authenticated.

The impact of a successful cross-site request forgery attack is limited to the
capabilities exposed by the vulnerable application. For example, this attack could result
in a transfer of funds, changing a password, or purchasing an item in the users context.
In effect, CSRF attacks are used by an attacker to make a target system perform a
function (funds Transfer, form submission etc.) via the targets browser without
knowledge of the target user at least until the unauthorised function has been committed.

## Solution:

To arm an application against automated attacks and tooling you need to use unique tokens
which are included into the forms of an application, API calls or AJAX requests.  
Any state changing operation requires a secure random token (e.g CSRF token) to prevent
against CSRF attacks. Characteristics of a CSRF Token are a unique, large random
value generated by a cryptographically secure random number generator.

The CSRF token is then added as a hidden field for forms and validated on the sever side whenever
a user is sending a request to the server.

Note :
Whenever the application is an REST service and is using tokens such as JWT tokens, whenever these tokens are being sent
in the application headers rather than stored in cookies the application should not be suspectible to CSRF attacks for a succesfull CSRF attacke depends on the browsers cookie jar.
