# Reconnaissance

The first step of an attack is the Reconnaissance phase. It consists of techniques used by the attacker to actively or passively gather information that can be used to support targeting. Such information may include details of the victim organization, infrastructure, or staff/personnel. This information can be leveraged by the attacker to aid in other phases of the attack, such as using gathered information to plan and execute Initial Access, to scope and prioritize post-compromise objectives, or to drive and lead further Reconnaissance efforts. This encompasses technical as well as nontechnical information. Technical information may be IP-ranges, insight into the internal network infrastructure, used hardware and even passwords. But nontechnical information can also prove to be interesting in the context of a pentest, like social structures and location information. When used in combination, this information is often very helpful. For some accounts only certain type of information might be accessible, this will prove essential in later stages of the attack such as privilege escalation and also knowledge about the internal structures may therefore help focusing on the right targets.

The Reconnaissance phase is usually one of the most time-consuming stages of the attack and the information gathered, and well documented, in this phase is crucial for a successful lifecycle of the attack. Information gathered in publicly available sources are referred to as "passive reconnaissance" due to the less intrusive nature of these techniques, some also refer to this as OSINT (open-source intelligence). Examples for information sources are search engines, social networks, WHOIS databases or the Domain Name System (DNS). Active reconnaissance, on the other hand, collect information by sending requests directly to the target and analyzing the responses and how the target reacts to these requests, using tools such as nmap.
