### Avoid Incorrect Conversion or Cast

Almost all programming languages support multiple data types, such as integers, floating point, characters, and strings. Most programming languages have at least some type checking built into them; types can be checked statically (before run-time) and/or dynamically (at run-time). These checks can sometimes warn, or counter, serious problems.

Sometimes it is necessary to convert or cast a data value from one type to another. The details depend on the programming language, but while it is necessary, incorrect conversions and casts end up causing a disproportionate number of vulnerabilities. The conversion can lose information, or lead to a new value that might have been completely unexpected. Any conversion or casting, especially one that might lose information, should be reviewed to consider if there is a risk to doing it. Some languages have a **const** qualifier for declaring constants; it is dangerous to cast away a **const** qualifier, because this allows changes to the value while other parts of the system may depend on it being constant.

For our purposes, conversions do not include determining if a value is truthy. In general, programming languages have conditional constructs (such as **if** and **while**) that will produce different results depending on whether or not a condition’s value is truthy. What is truthy is a key design decision when creating a programming language. For example, every value in JavaScript is considered truthy except for a specific list of falsy values (currently **false**, **0**, **-0**, **0n**, **“”**, **null**, **undefined**, and **NaN**). In such languages, **if p** and similar are a shorthand for checking if a value is truthy. This interpretation in conditionals might be considered a conversion from some other type into a boolean type, but such constructs are really just an abbreviated way to determine if a value is truthy, and that is not what we are concerned with here.

*Incorrect Type Conversion or Cast* ([CWE-704](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/704.html)) is such a common cause of security vulnerabilities that it is 2019 CWE Top 25 #28.