## Database Services
Database services play an important role for applications and they should be isolated from user accessible networks. Otherwise, they will become an open target for attackers and it may lead to serious consequence. 

Some common database systems are MySQL, PostgreSQL, MSSql, Oracle, etc. 

Beside SQLi attacks, intruders can also target the database application itself:

* Attackers can try login attempts, if the service host:port is accessible. Default and guessable credentials will be first thing to try. 
	Some example of brute force commands:

	```
	$ ncrack -v -iL TargetIPAddresses.txt --user root -P passwords.txt -p PostgreSQL CL=1
	$ hydra -L userNames.txt -P userPass.txt <IP> mssql
	$ nmap --script oracle-brute -p 1521 --script-args oracle-brute.sid=ORCL <IP>
	$ nmap -p 27017 <IP> --script mongodb-brute
	```

* Application banners can be helpful to obtain running versions numbers and attackers can search for reported vulnerabilities. Even they can download and simulate the target environment to find zero days. 

	```
	$ nmap -sV --script=banner <IP>
	```
	In action:
	```
	$ nmap -sV --script=banner  localhost -p80
	Starting Nmap 7.92 ( https://nmap.org ) at 2022-05-11 09:09 CEST
	Nmap scan report for localhost (127.0.0.1)
	Host is up (0.00014s latency).

	PORT   STATE SERVICE VERSION
	80/tcp open  http    SimpleHTTPServer 0.6 (Python 3.9.9)
	|_http-server-header: SimpleHTTP/0.6 Python/3.9.9
	...

	```

* And insecure algorithms or protocols may also cause traffic monitoring, data manipulation, replay attacks, etc. Best practices should be followed for __data-at-rest, data-in-transit__ and __data-in-use__.
    * SSLv3, MD5, TLSv1.0, TLSv1.1, DES, RC4, SHA1, ECB are some example of weak algorithms and protocols.
    * 'Key Management Lifecycle' should be part of all encryption/decryption steps.
    * Application layer encryptions can be an option but it also raises some security concerns:
        - How to handle Encryption Key
        - How to mitigate replay attacks
        - And it may lack of digital signature and host identification.
	
	For most of cases, using TLS is a better option.
