### Software Composition Analysis (SCA)/Dependency Analysis

One kind of static analysis tool is so important that we want to discuss it separately. The kind of analysis these tools do has a variety of names, including software composition analysis (SCA), dependency analysis, and origin analysis. No matter what it is called, it is important. Let’s first examine *why* it is important.

#### Need for SCA

Long ago, software developers wrote most of the software in their application. Today, that is almost never the case. Instead, software developers typically reuse software packages that are mostly written by others, and then write only the specialized functionality and the glue code necessary to make things work together in the way desired. This also applies to reusable software packages; these packages typically depend on packages, which depend on others, and so on. The same is true for standalone operating systems, virtual machine images, and container images - they often include a lot of software written by others.

There are clear advantages to reusing software. One advantage is that it saves a lot of time (and money) - you don’t have to develop that code! Another advantage is that a reused package is often especially good at that task (since someone spent time specifically to solve that problem); these packages often handle edge cases you might otherwise forget.

But when you reuse software, there is a downside: that software will have vulnerabilities in it. You should try to pick software that is likely to have fewer vulnerabilities. But in general, vulnerabilities *will* be found in the software you use directly and indirectly; those vulnerabilities will be publicly announced, and updates to those components that fix the vulnerabilities will be released. Because most reused software is OSS, some people and companies call this examining for OSS. That is not quite right, because it is actually an issue for any reused software, but it is understandable that people focus on OSS because most reused software is OSS.

🔔 This is such a common problem that in 2013 OWASP added *Using Components with Known Vulnerabilities* to the OWASP Top 10. Using components with known vulnerabilities is 2017 OWASP Top 10 #9.

It is inevitable that you will need to quickly update vulnerable reused components, so you need to *prepare* to quickly detect and do security updates for the reused software in your applications.

#### Preparing for the Inevitable: Vulnerabilities in Your Dependencies

A key part of your preparation is to use a tool that can determine what software you reuse, and report on any publicly-known vulnerabilities in those reused components. Tools that can identify reused components have various names including software composition analysis (SCA) tools, software component analysis tools, dependency analysis tools, or origin analysis tools. Historically, many of these tools were developed for legal review, to ensure that all the reused software is being used in conformance to their licenses, that the licenses (as used) are compatible, and that there are licenses for all of it. It is a very good idea to include this kind of license analysis whenever you try to include or update any reused software. But for our purposes, we will focus on the tools that compare this list of components (including their version numbers) with databases of known vulnerabilities.

There are publicly-available databases of software with publicly known vulnerabilities; an especially widely-used database is the US National Vulnerability Database (NVD). The NVD is a publicly-available database of publicly-known vulnerabilities, all identified by a CVE identifier (each vulnerability has a different CVE identifier) combined with a list of products and version numbers which are known to have that vulnerability. Some commercial vendors have their own databases as well.

So, all an SCA tool has to do, in theory, is figure out what components (and their versions) are present, look up each one in one or more databases, and report on matches. Even detecting the components is not always easy; sometimes reused components are not obvious (e.g., because they were copy and pasted in, instead of being properly handled using a package manager). Even more fundamentally, however, databases are constantly updated as new vulnerabilities are found. That means that reused software that had no known vulnerabilities earlier might now *have* a known vulnerability. Even if the vulnerability was publicly known earlier, that fact might not have been recorded in earlier versions of the database(s) used by the tool. So these tools must be periodically rerun, or have the comparisons rerun, so that you become aware of newly-found vulnerabilities.

You should avoid some bad behavior to make these tools more useful. Some developers copy reused code from other packages into their application, instead of using a package manager to automate identifying and updating reused packages. Even worse, developers sometimes *modify* these copies and/or check in these copies (creating a fork). Some SCA tools can actually examine code line-by-line, identify such likely copies, and connect them back to their sources (to help identify vulnerabilities). But such SCA tools are more complex, often expensive to buy and use, and trying to *update* that software is often quite difficult because everything is being done manually. In addition, such SCA tools must necessarily use heuristics to detect such situations, which may miss such components anyway.

It is far better to apply some good practices. First, when reusing software, use a package manager to manage it, one that records the specific version numbers in a standard format that you can record in your version control system. By using a standard format, you can use far simpler SCA tools, and the data will be more accurate. By using a package manager you can trivially cause a software update and check that the new set of components works.

But who decides how fast you need to update your reused components? That is a tricky question. Some people may say, “my company policy”, “my chief information security officer” (CISO), “my chief information office” (CIO), or something like that. All of those answers are wrong answers. If your goal is to have a secure system, then the correct answer is that the **_attackers_** *decide when you need to update*! That’s because you need to get the updated version deployed before an attacker exploits that vulnerability in your deployed system.

Speed is important when a component you depend on has a publicly-known vulnerability, and you *know* that this will happen sometimes. So trying to handle this completely manually is a mistake. You should instead make sure that:

1. You have at least one SCA tool that automatically reports to you when there is a known vulnerability in a component that your system uses.

2. You can easily update a component using a simple command, generally by telling a package manager to switch to a different version of that component and checking that change in.

3. You can automatically test the modified configuration to ensure that updating the component does not break anything important.

4. You can quickly deploy it (if you deploy directly) and/or distribute it (if you distribute the software to others).

If your automated tests are not good enough to make it acceptable to deploy updated components, then you have a serious security problem. Needing to update reused components is inevitable - not just a possibility - in most software. If the components you use are so out-of-date that you cannot update to a supported version, that is also a serious problem… because again, needing to update a component for a vulnerability is generally inevitable.

Like all tools, SCAs are prone to false positives. In particular, a component may have a vulnerability, but only when certain methods are used or only in certain configurations. If you don’t use the component in a way that the vulnerability can be exploited, then of course you don’t need to update the component. But this is a little misleading. It is often hard to be *certain* that you don’t need to do the update. In addition, if you have a proper process where you can easily update components ― and you need to ― then it often takes more time to determine (for sure) that the vulnerability is not exploitable than to just do the update. What’s more, time spent to figure this out may give an attacker time to exploit it if it is a real vulnerability. So it is often better to just update, even if it is not certain to be exploitable.

There are lots of SCAs available. If you use GitHub or GitLab, they provide some basic SCA reporting of known vulnerabilities in many components for free (assuming that you use a standard package management format they can process). Linux Foundation projects can use LFx (formerly CommunityBridge) which provides this service. There are a variety of suppliers that provide or sell such tools. This includes OWASP Dependency Check (which is OSS), Sonatype’s Nexus products, Synopsys’ Black Duck, Ion Channel Solutions, and Snyk. Some package managers include this capability or have a plug-in for it (e.g. Ruby’s **bundler** has **bundle-audit**). This is definitely *not* a complete list, and no doubt you will want to compare the options.

The key is that most software reuses other software, and that vulnerabilities will occasionally be found in that reused software.