# Question

Which of the following privacy-related statements is true?|| Check all of the options below that are true, and do NOT check them otherwise.

( ) There are no privacy laws in the United States.
- selected: No. The United States does not have a *comprehensive* information privacy law as a whole. Instead, the US federal government has a number of laws that cover different specific circumstances. There are also some state laws.

( ) The GDPR is irrelevant as long as you process personal data outside Europe.
- selected: No. The GDPR applies to those processing personal data of those residing in Europe, whether or not it is processed in Europe. Failure to comply with the GDPR may or may not be enforceable depending on a variety of factors, but in many cases it is very relevant.

( ) Under the GDPR, some personal data is considered more sensitive, and there are greater restrictions on collecting and processing them. This includes political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, trade union membership, genetic data, and data concerning health.

( ) Under the GDPR, once consent is given it cannot be withdrawn.
- selected: No, the GDPR requires that it be possible for users to be able to revoke consent. If there is no other legal reason that the data can be retained and processed, then the data must be erased.

( ) Under the GDPR, a prechecked “I agree” checkbox is enough to obtain consent.
- selected: No, consent requires a “clear affirmative action”. Prechecked boxes do not count.

( ) Under the GDPR, data subjects can, under certain circumstances, demand to have their personal data erased.

-----SPLIT-----

# Answer

Which of the following privacy-related statements is true?|| Check all of the options below that are true, and do NOT check them otherwise.

(!) There are no privacy laws in the United States.
- No. The United States does not have a *comprehensive* information privacy law as a whole. Instead, the US federal government has a number of laws that cover different specific circumstances. There are also some state laws.

( ) The GDPR is irrelevant as long as you process personal data outside Europe.
- No. The GDPR applies to those processing personal data of those residing in Europe, whether or not it is processed in Europe. Failure to comply with the GDPR may or may not be enforceable depending on a variety of factors, but in many cases it is very relevant.

(x) Under the GDPR, some personal data is considered more sensitive, and there are greater restrictions on collecting and processing them. This includes political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, trade union membership, genetic data, and data concerning health.

( ) Under the GDPR, once consent is given it cannot be withdrawn.
- No, the GDPR requires that it be possible for users to be able to revoke consent. If there is no other legal reason that the data can be retained and processed, then the data must be erased.

( ) Under the GDPR, a prechecked “I agree” checkbox is enough to obtain consent.
- No, consent requires a “clear affirmative action”. Prechecked boxes do not count.

(x) Under the GDPR, data subjects can, under certain circumstances, demand to have their personal data erased.