# Question

Which of the following is a generally-accepted security principle?||Check all of the options below that are generally-accepted security principles, and do NOT check them otherwise.

( ) Make the source code difficult to understand (e.g., use obscure names) so that vulnerabilities will be more difficult to detect. 

( ) Ensure that the design of the security mechanism is secret so that it will be more difficult to discover problems in it. 

( ) The software should be secure by default.

( ) Support 2-factor authentication (2FA), so that even if an attacker has a single authentication value (such as a password) the attacker cannot exploit it.

( ) Minimize sharing of components between those with different privileges. Examples of components are directories and running containers.

( ) Make the software easy-to-use, in particular, try to ensure that users will routinely and automatically use the protection mechanisms correctly.

-----SPLIT-----

# Answer

Which of the following is a generally-accepted security principle?||Check all of the options below that are generally-accepted security principles, and do NOT check them otherwise.

(!) Make the source code difficult to understand (e.g., use obscure names) so that vulnerabilities will be more difficult to detect. 
- No, if the source code is more difficult to understand, then it will be more difficult for developers to make it secure in the first place. You should strive to keep the system as reasonably simple as you can.

( ) Ensure that the design of the security mechanism is secret so that it will be more difficult to discover problems in it. 
- No, a long-understood principle is “open design” - the system must be secure even if the design of the security mechanism is public. Sooner or later its design will be revealed, and you might not know when that has occurred. It is better to ensure that it will be secure even if how it works is well-known.

(x) The software should be secure by default.

(x) Support 2-factor authentication (2FA), so that even if an attacker has a single authentication value (such as a password) the attacker cannot exploit it.

(x) Minimize sharing of components between those with different privileges. Examples of components are directories and running containers.

(x) Make the software easy-to-use, in particular, try to ensure that users will routinely and automatically use the protection mechanisms correctly.