# Question

Which of the following is a useful additional security principle?||Check all of the options below that are generally-accepted security principles, and do NOT check them otherwise.

( ) Design and implement systems to ensure that after a request has been authorized, an attacker cannot change something relevant to that decision before the request is acted on.

( ) Modify the system’s design and configuration so that compromise is less likely *even* if there is a defect. 

( ) Put passwords and secret keys in the source code, so that the system can quickly get and use that information without depending on external components or data stores. 

( ) Include control (including programs) with data, so that how to manipulate the data is easily provided with the code. 

-----SPLIT-----

# Answer

Which of the following is a useful additional security principle?||Check all of the options below that are generally-accepted security principles, and do NOT check them otherwise.

(!x) Design and implement systems to ensure that after a request has been authorized, an attacker cannot change something relevant to that decision before the request is acted on. 
- This is important, it is called a time-of-check/time-of-use (TOCTOU) race condition. 

(x) Modify the system’s design and configuration so that compromise is less likely *even* if there is a defect. 
- This is true, it is called “hardening” a system. 

( ) Put passwords and secret keys in the source code, so that the system can quickly get and use that information without depending on external components or data stores. 
- No, please do *not* do that. Passwords and secret keys should not be in source code. If they re not in source code, people who can see the source code will not get the secret information, and keeping them out of source code also makes passwords and keys easier to change. 

( ) Include control (including programs) with data, so that how to manipulate the data is easily provided with the code. 
- That can be useful, but it is also dangerous from a security point of view. If an attacker manages to slip in “extra” information into data, this design can make it easy to cause a potentially-malicious program to be executed. Sometimes it is important to do this anyway, but it does create more complications when developing secure software.