# Question


Select all the statements that are true.

( ) On Unix and Linux, filenames are a sequence of characters.

( ) On Unix and Linux, filenames may contain control characters.

( ) On Unix and Linux, filenames with leading “**-**” characters can be a security problem. A simple solution is to prefix globs with “**./**” so that the first character cannot be a “**-**”.

( ) Path traversal occurs when an attacker can create filenames that traverse outside where they are supposed to, e.g., by embedding “**/../**”. A good way to counter this is to use a limited allowlist that prevents these attacks.

-----SPLIT-----

# Answer

Select all the statements that are true.

(!) On Unix and Linux, filenames are a sequence of characters.
- No, in general filenames in Unix and Linux are a sequence of bytes, which may or may not map to any specific characters at all. Some specific implementations and filesystems require filenames to be a sequence of characters, but this is not true as a blanket statement.

(x) On Unix and Linux, filenames may contain control characters.

(x) On Unix and Linux, filenames with leading “**-**” characters can be a security problem. A simple solution is to prefix globs with “**./**” so that the first character cannot be a “**-**”.

(x) Path traversal occurs when an attacker can create filenames that traverse outside where they are supposed to, e.g., by embedding “**/../**”. A good way to counter this is to use a limited allowlist that prevents these attacks.