# Question

Select all the true statement(s).

( ) In general, logged information should also be displayed to the user who triggered it to speed debugging

( ) Logging is often unnecessary because it is better to develop a system that is not vulnerable in the first place.

( ) Logs should generally include much more detail, but beware of including passwords and private keys, since logs are sometimes visible to many others. If you must include this data, consider including it as an encrypted or cryptographically-hashed value.

( ) Your log system may need to record data from an attacker, so make sure your logging system is not vulnerable to a “log forging” attack (where an attacker provides data that causes the recorded log to be misleading in some way).

-----SPLIT-----

# Answer

Select all the true statement(s).

(!) In general, logged information should also be displayed to the user who triggered it to speed debugging
- Absolutely not; the logs may contain sensitive or secret information, and users are often not fully trusted. Instead, report to the user what the user needs to know (e.g., “operation did not work”... and put the details in the logs.

( ) Logging is often unnecessary because it is better to develop a system that is not vulnerable in the first place.
- It is great to develop a system without vulnerabilities. Since there is no way to be absolutely certain that is true, we need logging to enable detection of a problem, so that we can then respond to the issue.

(x) Logs should generally include much more detail, but beware of including passwords and private keys, since logs are sometimes visible to many others. If you must include this data, consider including it as an encrypted or cryptographically-hashed value.

(x) Your log system may need to record data from an attacker, so make sure your logging system is not vulnerable to a “log forging” attack (where an attacker provides data that causes the recorded log to be misleading in some way).