# Question

Select all the true statement(s) about handling dependencies:

( ) Tools can be used to help you identify which software dependencies have publicly-known vulnerabilities.

( ) Software composition analysis (SCA) tools can be used to find all software dependencies with vulnerabilities.

( ) To keep software secure in operations, update your reused components within the time required by your company policy.

( ) To keep software secure in operations, ensure that there are automatic reports of known vulnerabilities in your dependencies, that you can easily update dependencies, that you can automatically test the modified configuration, and that you can quickly deploy or distribute as appropriate.

( ) Automated tests are a nice-to-have, but not necessary for security, when you have dependencies. {{selected: False, because you must be prepared for a rapid update when a dependency has a publicly-known exploit. Without automated tests, it is impractical to rapidly gain enough confidence to deploy the update in time.

-----SPLIT-----

# Answer

Select all the true statement(s) about handling dependencies:

(!x) Tools can be used to help you identify which software dependencies have publicly-known vulnerabilities.

( ) Software composition analysis (SCA) tools can be used to find all software dependencies with vulnerabilities.
- No, such tools attempt to determine the software dependencies, and then compare that to their database of known vulnerabilities. However, they might not identify all dependencies or the vulnerability might not be in their database. The vulnerability might not be publicly known, and even if it is, there is no guarantee that the tool database contains *all* publicly known vulnerabilities.

( ) To keep software secure in operations, update your reused components within the time required by your company policy.
- False, the *attacker* decides when you need to update. The updated version needs to be deployed before an attacker attacks that deployed system using that vulnerability. If your company policy says you have a week, and the attacker subverts your system within a day, your system was still subverted.

(x) To keep software secure in operations, ensure that there are automatic reports of known vulnerabilities in your dependencies, that you can easily update dependencies, that you can automatically test the modified configuration, and that you can quickly deploy or distribute as appropriate.

( ) Automated tests are a nice-to-have, but not necessary for security, when you have dependencies. 
- False, because you must be prepared for a rapid update when a dependency has a publicly-known exploit. Without automated tests, it is impractical to rapidly gain enough confidence to deploy the update in time.