# Question

Select the true statement(s) about dynamic analysis including testing:

( ) For high-quality software, ensure that the software is tested with all possible input values.

( ) Unit testing often misses whole-system problems that integration testing is much more likely to detect.

( ) Statement coverage measures the percentage of branches executed by some set of tests.

( ) Every security test should ensure that the system performs an action when it has already been authorized to do so.

( ) If statements are not being exercised by your test suite, you should investigate to determine why, especially if they are important to security.

( ) In general, statement and branch coverage cannot detect missing code, they can only report the percentage of *existing* code (by some metric) that is tested.

-----SPLIT-----

# Answer

Select the true statement(s) about dynamic analysis including testing:

(!) For high-quality software, ensure that the software is tested with all possible input values.
- That is completely impossible. We cannot even do that for software that just adds two 64-bit numbers, nevermind “real world” software.

(x) Unit testing often misses whole-system problems that integration testing is much more likely to detect.

( ) Statement coverage measures the percentage of branches executed by some set of tests.
- No. Branch coverage measures branches, statement coverages measures statements.

( ) Every security test should ensure that the system performs an action when it has already been authorized to do so.
- No, though this is an admittedly sneaky question. It is probably more important for security to write tests to check that the system does NOT perform various actions when it is NOT authorized to do so. These kinds of tests, to ensure that something is NOT done when it’s not supposed to be done, are sometimes called “negative testing”. It is very important, for security, that these negative tests are part of your automated test suite.

(x) If statements are not being exercised by your test suite, you should investigate to determine why, especially if they are important to security.

(x) In general, statement and branch coverage cannot detect missing code, they can only report the percentage of *existing* code (by some metric) that is tested.